(kt2008)=
# Handling Non-convex Adjustment Costs: Khan and Thomas (2008)

This is a real business cycle model with heterogeneous firms. Firms face fixed costs when making capital adjustments, which generates an $(S,s)$ style investment rule. The toolbox solves the steady state and the linear/non-linear transition path after an unexpected aggregate shock to productivity. Following [Boppart, Krusell and Mitman (2018)](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0165188918300022) and [Auclert et al. (2021)](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.3982/ECTA17434), the deterministic transition path characterizes the first order effect of the aggregate shock.

We use the parameterization in [Winberry (2018)](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.3982/QE740) which adjusts the parameter values in  [Khan and Thomas (2008)](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1468-0262.2008.00837.x) for no trend growth. We follow the notation in Khan and Thomas (2008).

## Model

**Heterogeneous firms** differ in their idiosyncratic productivity, $\varepsilon$, which follows an exogenous Markov chain, and capital holding $k$. When making investment decisions, the firm can incur a fixed cost of $\xi$ in units of labor, so that its choice of investment becomes unconstrained; otherwise, its choice of investment needs to be constrained in an interval $[-ak,ak]$, leaving next period capital choice constrained in the interval $[(1-\delta+a)k,(1-\delta+b)k]$, with $\delta>0$ the depreciation rate.  $\xi$ is drawn i.i.d. from the uniform distribution over $[0,\bar{\xi}]$, with the distribution denoted by $G$.

At time $t$, a firm with realized $(\varepsilon,k,\xi)$ solves the following problem:

$$
v_t^1(\varepsilon,k,\xi)=\max_{n,k^*,k^C} \Big[z_t \varepsilon k^{\alpha}n^{\nu}-\omega_t n+(1-\delta)k+\max\{-\xi \omega_t+r_t(\varepsilon,k^*),r_t(\varepsilon,k^C)\}\Big]
\\
s.t. \quad n\geq 0,  k^* \geq 0
\\
k^C\in [(1-\delta-a)k,(1-\delta+a)k].
$$

$z_t$ is the aggregate productivity; $\omega_t$ is the wage rate; $r_t(\varepsilon,k')$ is the continuation value associated with a future capital level $k'$, defined below. Firms choose labor demand $n$, unconstrained capital adjustment level $k^*$, and constrained capital level $k^C$. The $\max$ operator in the objective compares the continuation value under unconstrained or constrained adjustment, accounting for the fixed cost $\xi \omega_t$ that needs to be incurred to unlock the unconstrained adjustment. The continuation value is given by

$$
r_t(\varepsilon,k') = -k' + d_t\cdot\mathbb{E}[v^0_{t+1}(\varepsilon',k')|\varepsilon],
$$

where $d_t$ is the discount factor inherited from the households, and $v_{t+1}^0$ is the expected  value integrating over future adjustment cost $\xi'$:

$$
v_{t+1}^0(\varepsilon',k')=\int_0^{\bar{\xi}} v_{t+1}^1(\varepsilon',k',\xi') G (d\xi').
$$

Firms' decision for whether to incur the adjustment cost can be characterized by a threshold rule: a firm will incur the adjustment cost if and only if the benefit of unconstrained adjusting outweighs the fixed cost, i.e., with a draw of $\xi$ that satisfies

$$
\xi \leq \xi^*_t(\varepsilon,k)\equiv \max\{\min\{\frac{r_t(\varepsilon,g_{k^*,t}(\varepsilon,k))-r_t(\varepsilon,g_{k^C,t}(\varepsilon,k))}{\omega_t},\bar{\xi}\},0\},
$$

which applies that $\xi$ is drawn from a uniform distribution over $[0,\bar{\xi}]$. $g_{n,t},g_{k^*,t},g_{k^C,t}$ are policy functions for $n,k^*,k^C$ respectively.

Denote $\Gamma_t$  the measure that represents the distribution over firms endogenous states $(\varepsilon,k)$.

**Representative households** value consumption and leisure, and maximize the lifetime utility

$$
\sum_{t=0}^{\infty} \beta^t \Big[\frac{C_t^{1-\sigma}-1}{1-\sigma}-\chi N_t\Big].
$$

Households' optimality gives the conditions:

$$
d_t = \beta \Big[\frac{C_{t+1}}{C_t}\Big]^{-\sigma}
\\
\omega_t C_t^{-\sigma}=\chi.
$$

**Market clearing conditions** for labor:

$$
N_t = \underbrace{\int g_{n,t}(\varepsilon,k) d \Gamma_t}_{\text{labor used in production}}+ \underbrace{\iint_0^{\xi_t^*(\varepsilon,k)} \xi G(d\xi)d\Gamma_t}_{\text{labor used in capital adjustment cost}},
$$

and for goods:

$$
C_t=\int \{z_t \varepsilon k^{\alpha}[g_{n,t}(\varepsilon,k)]^{\nu} + (1-\delta)k\} d \Gamma_t - \int_0^{\xi_t^*(\varepsilon.k)} g_{k^*,t}(\varepsilon,k) d\Gamma_t-\int_{\xi_t^*(\varepsilon.k)}^{\bar{\xi}} g_{k^C,t}(\varepsilon,k) d\Gamma_t.
$$

**A sequential competitive equilibrium**, given an initial distribution over firms $\Gamma_0$, is a sequence of (1) firms' value and policy functions $\{v_t^1,v_t^0,r_t,\xi_t^*,g_{k^*,t},g_{k^C,t}\}$; (2) aggregate quantities and prices $\{C_t,N_t,\omega_t,d_t\}$; (3) distribution over firms states $(\varepsilon,k)$, $\{\Gamma_t\}$, such that

- value and policy functions solve firms' Bellman equation

- $\{C_t,N_t,\omega_t,d_t\}$ satisfy the four set of equations that characterize households' optimality and market clearing conditions, listed above

- $\{\Gamma_t\}$ are consistent with the exogenous transition of $\varepsilon$ and policy functions $\{\xi_t^*,g_{k^*,t},g_{k^C,t}\}$. We write out the transition of $\Gamma_t$ to highlight the stochastic transition of states due to idiosyncratic draws of $\xi$:

$$
\Gamma_{t+1}(\mathcal{E}',\mathcal{K}')=\int
\left(
\int_0^{\xi_t^*(\varepsilon,k)}\mathcal{I}(g_{k^*,t}(\varepsilon,k)\in \mathcal{K}')G(d\xi)+
\int_{\xi_t^*(\varepsilon,k)}^{\bar{\xi}}\mathcal{I}(g_{k^C,t}(\varepsilon,k)\in \mathcal{K}')G(d\xi)
\right)P(\mathcal{E}'|\varepsilon)\Gamma_t(d \varepsilon, dk), \forall \text{ Boreal set } (\mathcal{E}',\mathcal{K}')
$$
  
  where $P(\mathcal{E}'|\varepsilon)$ is the transition measure of $\varepsilon$.

## Characterizations

Several simplifications of firms' problem in order. First, the choice of labor $n$ is independent of the investment decision, and the constrained and unconstrained investment problems are independent of each other. The decision problem thus can be decoupled and written as

$$
v_t^1(\varepsilon,k,\xi)=(1-\delta)k+\max_{n} (z_t \varepsilon k^{\alpha}n^{\nu} -\omega_t n)
+\max\Big\{-\xi \omega_t+ \max_{k^*\geq0}r_t(\varepsilon,k^*), \max_{k^C\in [(1-\delta-a)k,(1-\delta+a)k]} r_t(\varepsilon,k^C)\Big\}.
$$

Next, with the assumption that $\xi$ is drawn from the uniform distribution, we can integrate over the expected value under the cutoff rule:

$$
v_t^0(\varepsilon,k)=\int_0^{\bar{\xi}} v_t^1(\varepsilon,k,\xi)G(d\xi)
\\
=\pi_t(\varepsilon,k)+\int_0^{\xi_t^*(\varepsilon,k)} [R_t^a(\varepsilon,k)-\xi \omega_t]\frac{1}{\bar{\xi}} d\xi+\int_{\xi_t^*(\varepsilon,k)}^{\bar{\xi}}R_t^c(\varepsilon,k)\frac{1}{\bar{\xi}} d\xi
\\
=\pi_t(\varepsilon,k)+\frac{\xi_t^*(\varepsilon,k)}{\overline{\xi}}R_t^a(\varepsilon,k)-\frac{\omega_t}{2\bar{\xi}}[\xi_t^*(\varepsilon,k)]^2+
\left(1-\frac{\xi_t^*(\varepsilon,k)}{\overline{\xi}}\right)R_t^c(\varepsilon,k)
$$

where $\pi_t(\varepsilon,k)\equiv(1-\delta)k+\max_{n} (z_t \varepsilon k^{\alpha}n^{\nu} -\omega_t n)$ is the maximized profit, $R_t^a(\varepsilon,k)\equiv\max_{k^*\geq0}r_t(\varepsilon,k^*)$, and $R_t^c(\varepsilon,k)\equiv\max_{k^C\in [(1-\delta-a)k,(1-\delta+a)k]}r_t(\varepsilon,k^C)$. The threshold $\xi_t^*(\varepsilon,k)$ satisfies

$$
\xi^*_t(\varepsilon,k) = \max\{\min\{\frac{R_t^a(\varepsilon,k)-R_t^c(\varepsilon,k)}{\omega_t},\bar{\xi}\},0\}.
$$

With these characterizations ready, we are able to input the model into the toolbox script file.

## The hmod File

The model can be represented using {download}`KT2008.hmod`, listed below.

```{literalinclude} KT2008.hmod
:language: HANS
:linenos:
```

We highlight several new features of the toolbox demonstrated by this example. First, the toolbox handles multi-object optimization by defining the "objective" as the sums of each problem:

```{literalinclude} KT2008.hmod
:language: HANS
:linenos:
:lineno-match:
:start-at: vfi;
:end-at: end;
:emphasize-lines: 9-11, 23
```

Here, the problems under constrained and unconstrained adjustment are indepenent, with objectives specified in *Ra* and *Rc* respectively.

The updated value in the Bellman equation, "Tv",  needs not agree with "objective".

Then, we can specify the stochastic transition of endogenous states, here, due to idiosyncratic investment cost draws. 

```{literalinclude} KT2008.hmod
:language: HANS
:linenos:
:lineno-match:
:start-at: k(+1)
:end-before: end;
```

The syntax is as follows: var_state_name(+1) = {value_1, value_2, ...} {probability_1, probability_2, ...}.

Next, we can have a different system of equations than the main **model** block, enclosed in a **model_modname**(var_agg_1, var_agg_2,...) block:

```{literalinclude} KT2008.hmod
:language: HANS
:linenos:
:lineno-match:
:start-at: model_cali
:end-at: end;
:emphasize-lines: 1, 6-7
```

Here, we define a system of equations for calibration, which adds from the equilibrium condition one extra unknown $\chi$ and the associated extra equation, total labor demand = targetd labor supply. The toolbox will generate a solve_modname.m script for each alternative model block, which can be called for solving each alternative system defined.

## Use the Toolbox

After parsing the script file, the toolbox generates MATLAB files: *solve_vfi.m*, *solve_ss.m*, *solve_trans_linear.m*, *solve_trans_nonlinear.m*, *solve_cali.m* and other functions that can be called to solve the steady state, stationary distribution, transition paths, and alternative system (here, calibration) of the model. The usages of the generated files are illustrated below.

```{raw} html
:file: kt2008_notebook.html
```

## What's Next?

Behind the scene: understand the details of [the Algorithm](toolbox_algorithm).

Check the [Toolbox API reference](toolbox_api).

More examples:
- [Krusell and Smith (1998)](ks_1998) for the basics
- [McKay, Nakamura and Steinsson (2016)](hank_zlb) for a Heterogeneous-Agent New-Keynesian model for defining complex equilibrium conditions and handling nonlinearity
- A discrete-time two-asset HANK model for handling portfolio choices